# Lotto Game

This project is based on the Italian lotto game.  
It will consist of 3 learning paths.  
For more info on the rules visit: https://www.sisal.it/lotto/come-si-gioca  

## Learning Path 3

In this branch there is the third level, after generating a lottery ticket based on the name of the wheel,  
the type of bet and the numbers to be generated entered by the user, generated the extraction of the numbers    
for each wheel and verified whether one of the tickets is the winner, the prize will be calculated

### Structure

**How to launch the program:**  
start the program from the file lotto_game.py present here.  
At the command line enter "-n" followed by the number of tickets to generate

**lotto folder:**  
This folder contains all the classes used in the program:  

- bet_type.py  
Contains the BetType class, where general information on the type of bet is contained. Inside we find:
    - is_bet_type_valid  
    which takes care of validating the user's choice
    
    - bet_index  
     which takes care of transforming the numerical value entered by the user into the corresponding name

- check_extraction.py
Contains the CheckExtraction class, where general information on the extraction. Inside we find:
    - the dictionary check_extraction, where 5 random numbers are generated for each city
    - print_extraction, print the extraction on the screen
    - is_winner, which checks if the ticket generated by the user is a winner or not

- city.py  
Contains the City class, where there is general information on "ruota" names. Inside we find:
    - is_city_valid  
    which takes care of validating the user's choice
    
    - city_index  
    which takes care of transforming the numerical value entered by the user into the corresponding name
    
- lotto.py  
It manages the logic of the program. Inside we find:
    - choose_city  
    Asks the user for input for the name of the "ruota" on which the ticket is to be generated
    
     - choose_bet_type  
     Asks the user as input for the type of bet to be made
    
    - choose_numbers  
    Asks the user how many numbers to randomly generate for the single ticket (from 1 to 10)
    
    - choose_played
    Asks the user the value of the played for the ticket
    
    - print_ticket  
    Print the ticket on the screen
    
    - check_win
    Which is responsible for verifying whether the ticket created is winning or not
    
    - check_prize
    Which is responsible for verifying the total winnings
    
    
- lotto_helper.py  
It takes care of the printing functions.

- prize
which is responsible for verifying the total premium based on the data entered by the user. Inside we find:

  - check_combination, which takes care of reporting the number of playable combinations
  - check_amount, which takes care of reporting the gross win value